A bad word whispered will echo a hundred miles.
A bad worker quarrels with his tools.
A bad workman blames his tools.
A bar of iron continually ground becomes a needle.
A beautiful bird is the only kind we cage.
A bird can roost but on one branch, a mouse can drink not more than its fill from a river.
A bird does not sing because it has an answer. It sings because it has a song.
A bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses.
A book holds a house of gold.
A bride received into the home is like a horse that you have just bought; you break her in by constantly mounting her and continually beating her.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
A chicken is hatched even from such a well-sealed thing as an egg.
A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every passerby leaves a mark.
A clever person turns great troubles into little ones and little ones into none at all.
A client twixt his attorney and counselor is like a goose twixt two foxes.
A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood.
A cloth is not woven from a single thread.
A country where flowers are priced so as to make them a luxury has yet to learn the first principles of civilization.
A courageous foe is better than a cowardly friend.
A courtesy much entreated is half recompensed.
A crisis is an opportunity riding the dangerous wind.
A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy.
A dog in desperation will leap over a wall.
A dog won't forsake his master because of poverty; a son never deserts his mother because of her homely appearance.
A fall into a ditch makes you wiser.
A person whose heart is not content is like a snake which tries to swallow an elephant.
A person with a bad name is already half-hanged.
A red-nosed man may be a teetotaler, but will find no one to believe it.
A reed before the wind lives on, while mighty oaks do fall.
A rumour goes in one ear and out many mouths.
A single beam cannot support a great house.
A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study.
A single untried popular remedy often throws the scientific doctor into hysterics.
A sly rabbit will have three openings to its den.
A smile will gain you ten more years of life.
A thorn defends the rose harming only those who would steal the blossom.
A thousand cups of wine do not suffice when true friends meet, but half a sentence is too much when there is no meeting of minds.
A thousand pounds and a bottle of hay are all one at domesday.
A vacant mind is open to all suggestions, as a hollow mountain returns all sounds.
A whitewashed crow soon shows black again.
A wicked book cannot repent.
A wicked companion invites us all to hell.
A wise man makes his own decisions, an ignorant man follows public opinion.
A young branch takes on all the bends that one gives it.
A young doctor makes a full graveyard.
Abroad we judge the dress; at home we judge the man.
Add legs to the snake after you have finished drawing it.
After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless.
All cats love fish but fear to wet their paws.
All people are your relatives, therefore expect only trouble from them.
Better be too credulous than too skeptical.
Better die ten years early than live ten years poor.
Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense.
Better do it than wish it done.
Better go than send.
Better go to heaven in rags than to hell in embroidery.
Better the cottage where one is merry than the palace where one weeps.
Better the devil you know than the devil you don't.
Better to do a kindness near home than go far away to burn incense.
Careless rat chewing on a cat's tail: beware lightning!
Ceremony is the smoke of friendship.
Cheap things are not good, good things are not cheap.
Cheat the earth and the earth will cheat you.
Clumsy birds have need of early flight.
Conquerors are kings; the beaten are bandits.
Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite.
Corporations have neither bodies to be punished nor souls to be damned.
Count not what is lost but what is left.
Covet wealth, and want it; don't, and luck will grant it.
Covetous men's chests are rich, not they.
Crows everywhere are equally black.
Curse your wife at evening, sleep alone at night.
Cursed cows have short horns.
Customers are jade; merchandise is grass.
Dangerous enemies will meet again in narrow streets.
Don't cross the bridge until you come to it.
Don't stand by the water and long for fish; go home and weave a net.
Don't waste good iron for nails or good men for soldiers.
Don't waste too many stones on one bird.
Donkey's lips don't fit onto a horse's mouth.
Dream different dreams while on the same bed.
Dream of a funeral and you hear of a marriage.
Easier to bend the body than the will.
Easier to rule a nation than a son.
Easy to believe in heaven's law, but so hard to keep.
Easy to enroll a thousand soldiers. But, ah, one general!.
Easy to keep the castle that was never besieged.
Easy to know men's faces, not their hearts.
Easy to run downhill, much puffing to run up.
Empty the clear path to heaven, crowded the dark road to hell.
Enjoy yourself. It's later than you think.
Enough shovels of earth make a mountain, enough pails of water a river.
Enough's as good as a feast.
Even a hare will bite when it is cornered.
Every day cannot be a feast of lanterns.
Everyone pushes a falling fence.
Everyone rakes the fire under his own pot.
Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength.
Everyone speaks well of the bridge which carries him over.
Everyone stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
Give a beggar a bed and he'll repay you with a louse.
Going beyond is as bad as falling short.
Gold and silver are mingled with dirt, till avarice parted them.
Gold has its price; learning is beyond price.
Gold is tested by fire, man by gold.
Good fortune may forebode bad luck, which may in turn disguise good fortune.
Govern a family as you would cook a small fish--very gently.
Govern yourself and you can govern the world.
Grass fears the frost, frost fears the sun.
Great blessings come from heaven; small blessings come from man.
Great boast, small roast.
Great business is good; to sit and sip this glass is better.
Great cry and little wool, as the fellow said when he sheared his hogs.
Great souls have wills; feeble ones have only wishes.
Habits are cobwebs at first, cables at last.
Happiness is like a sunbeam, which the least shadow intercepts, while adversity is often as the rain of spring.
Happy people never count hours as they pass.
Hatred corrodes the vessel in which it is stored.
Have a mouth as sharp as a dagger, but a heart as soft as tofu.
Have but few friends though much acquaintance.
He comes with incense in one hand, in the other a spear.
He has too many lice to feel an itch.
He hath lived ill that knows not how to die well.
He painted a tiger, but it turned out a dog.
If there is a strong general, there will be no weak soldiers.
If there is a wave there must be a wind.
If there is beauty in character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
If what we see is doubtful, how can we believe what is spoken behind the back.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
If you always give, you will always have.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people.
If you are standing upright, don't worry if your shadow is crooked.
If you beat spice it will smell the sweeter.
If you bow at all, bow low.
If you can't change your fate, change your attitude.
If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain.
If you don't speculate, you can't accumulate.
If you get up one more time than you fall you will make it through.
If you have never done anything evil, you should not be worrying about devils knocking at your door.
If you have two loaves of bread, sell one and buy a lily.
If you must play, decide on three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time.
If you pay peanuts, you get monkeys.
If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it.
If you share a man's wealth, try to lessen his misfortune.
If you suspect a man, don't employ him, and if you employ him, don't suspect him.
If you want an audience, start a fight.
Illness comes in by mouth; ills come out by it.
In every family's cooking pot is one black spot.
In his decision the judge with seven reasons gives only one in court.
In reviling, it is not necessary to prepare a preliminary draft.
In shallow holes moles make fools of dragons.
In the broken nest there are no whole eggs.
In the coldest flint there is hot fire.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
In the presence of princes the cleverest jester is mute.
Insects do not nest in a busy door-hinge.
It is better to be entirely without a book than to believe it entirely.
It is easier to know how to do than it is to do.
It is harder to be poor without complaining than to be rich without boasting.
It is not economical to go to bed early to save the candles if the result is twins.
It is the beautiful bird which gets caged.
It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load.
It's as difficult to be rich without bragging as it is to be poor without complaining.
It's your own lantern; don't poke holes in the paper.
Jade and men, both are sharpened by bitter tools.
Jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today.
Judge not the horse by his saddle.
Just as tall trees are known by their shadows, so are good men known by their enemies.
Just scales and full measure injure no man.
Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve.
Kill a chicken before a monkey.
Kill one to warn a hundred.
Make sure you leave some fat for the other side.
Mallet strikes chisel; chisel splits wood.
Man cannot stir one inch without the push of heaven's finger.
Man concocts a million schemes; god knows but one.
Man fools himself. He prays for a long life and he fears old age.
Man has a thousand plans, heaven but one.
Man is heaven and earth in miniature.
Man must be sharpened on man, like knife on stone.
Mankind fears an evil man but heaven does not.
Mankind scorns a virtuous man, but heaven does not.
Manners maketh man.
Many a good face is under a ragged hat.
Many a little make a mickle.
Many books do not use up words; many words do not use up thoughts.
Married couples tell each other a thousand things without speech.
Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking.
Medicine can only cure curable disease, and then not always.
Men fated to be happy need not haste.
Men in the game are blind to what men looking on see clearly.
Men know not all their faults, oxen all their strength.
Misfortune is not that which can be avoided, but that which cannot.
Nature is better than a middling doctor.
Nature, time and patience are the three great physicians.
Never answer a letter while you are angry.
Never argue with a man who buys ink by the barrel.
Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down.
Never try to catch two frogs with one hand.
Never write a letter while you are angry.
No matter how stout one beam, it cannot support a house.
No matter how tall the mountain, it cannot block out the sun.
No medicines can cure the vulgar man.
No melon-peddler cries: Bitter melons! No wine-dealer says: Sour wine!
No mill, no meal.
No wind, no waves.
No wisdom like silence.
No wisdom to silence.
Not wine . . . men intoxicate themselves; not vice . . . men entice themselves.
O eggs, never fight with stones!
O man, you who do not live a hundred years, why fret a thousand minutes?
Of a dead leopard we keep the skin, of man his reputation.
Of a good beginning cometh a good end.
Of all meat in the world drink goes down the best.
Of all the thirty-six alternatives, running away is the best.
Often one finds one's destiny just where one hides to avoid it.
On entering a country, ask what is forbidden, on entering a village, ask what are the customs, on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope.
Once on a tiger's back it is hard to alight.
One can care little for man, but we need a friend.
One cannot manage too many affairs; like pumpkins in water, one pops up while you try to hold down the other.
One dog barks at something, the rest bark at him.
One family builds the wall, two families enjoy it.
One generation plants the trees, another gets the shade.
One happiness scatters a thousand sorrows.
One joy shatters a hundred griefs.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor among them. When it comes to three, they have to go thirsty.
One should be just as careful in choosing one's pleasures as in avoiding calamities.
One step at a time is good walking.
One step at a time.
One's shadow grows larger than life when admired by the light of the moon.
Only he that has traveled the road knows where the holes are deep.
Only when all contribute their firewood can they build up a strong fire.
Out of a dog's mouth will never come ivory tusks.
Outside noisy, inside empty.
Paper can't wrap up a fire.
Parents who are afraid to put their foot down usually have children who step on their toes.
Patience and the mulberry leaf become a silk robe.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
Patience is a plaister for all sores.
Patience is power; with time and patience the mulberry becomes silk.
Peace and tranquility are a thousand gold pieces.
Pick your inn before the dark; get on your road before the dawn.
Plan your year in the spring, your day at dawn.
Plant the crab-tree where you will it will never bear pippins.
Pleasures are shallow, sorrows deep.
Politeness wins the confidence of princes.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
Practice no vice because it's trivial; neglect no virtue because it's so.
Present to the eye, present to the mind.
Priests return to the temple, merchants to the shop.
Pure gold does not fear the smelter.
Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind.
Rare commodities are worth more than good.
Rather once cry your heart out than always sigh.
Rats know the way of rats.
Reform a gambler . . . cure leprosy.
Rein in the horse at the edge of the cliff.
Reshape one's foot to try to fit into a new shoe.
Rich men accumulate money; the poor accumulate years.
Riches add to the house, virtues to the man.
Riches: a dream in the night; fame: a gull floating on water.
Rivers and mountains may change; human nature, never.
Rotten wood cannot be carved.
Runaway son, a shining jewel; runaway daughter, tarnished.
Scholars talk books, butchers talk pigs.
Schoolmaster, stick to your books; farmer, to your pigs.
Seeking fish? Don't dive in the pond; go home and get a net.
Sending charcoal in the snow is better than adding flowers to a brocade.
Young men may die, old men must.
Young men's knocks old men feel.
Young people don't know what age is, and old people forget what youth was.
Zeal without knowledge is like fire without light.
Zeal without knowledge is the sister of folly.
His fore feet though you sever, his grip he'll make good.
And he repents in thorns that sleeps in beds of roses.
Poor thieves in halters we behold; And great thieves in their chains of gold.
When two agree in their desire, One sparke will set them both on fire.
The pitcher that goes too often to the well is broken at last.
The pitcher will go to the well once too often.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth.
The worse the passage the more welcome the port.
There's many a good cock come out of a tattered bag.
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
Think of ease, but work on.
Too far East is West.
Two wrongs do not make a right.
Use soft words and hard arguments.
Venture not to defend what your judgment doubts of.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
We are all Adam's children, but silk makes the difference.
We are usually the best men when in the worst health.
When a proud man hears another praised, he feels himself injured.
Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good.
Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns.
Whom we love best, to them we can say least.
Write down the advice of him who love you, though you like it not at present.
Year of snow fruit will grow.
You can't get blood out of a stone.
You can't get blood out of a turnip.
You never miss a slice from a cut loaf.
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
Take a dog for a companion and a stick in your hand.
Take a hair of the dog that has bitten you.
Take care of your pennies and your pounds will take care of your heirs and barristers.
Take heed of enemies reconciled, and of meat twice boiled.
The afterthought is good for nought, except it be to catch blind horses with.
The bait hides the hook.
The calmest husbands make the stormiest wives.
The camel asking for horns lost also his ears. [In grasping for things we need not, we often lose what we have.]
The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
The Devil's children have the Devil's luck.
The difference is wide that the sheets will not decide.
The eyes are the window of the soul.
The face is no index to the heart.
The golden age never was the present age.
The greater the sinner, the greater the saint.
The greater the truth, the greater the libel.
The greatest barkers bite not sorest.
The more acquaintance, the more danger.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat.
The noisiest drum has nothing in it but air.
The noisy fowler catches no birds.
The north wind has no corn and a poor man no friend.
The old ox plows a straight furrow.
The person who is tired will find time to sleep. A person with a bad name is already half hanged.
Of wine the middle, of oil the top, and of honey the bottom is best.
One funeral makes many.
Plenty know good ale, but don't know much after that.
Poor Trust is dead; Bad Pay killed him.
Proportion your expenses to what you have, not what you expect.
Prosperity discovers vices, and adversity virtue.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
Rain before seven; clear before eleven.
Raw cucumber makes the churchyards prosperous.
Raw leather will stretch.
Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold.
Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Self-praise is no praise at all.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
Short acquaintance brings repentance.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
Some men go through a forest and see no firewood.
Some men have only one book in them, others a library.
Spread the table and contention will cease.
Spring has come when you can put your foot on three daisies.
Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
Still he fisheth that catcheth one.
Sweep in front of your own door.
It is ill fishing before the net.
It is ill prizing of green barley.
Keep counsel of thyself first.
Keep counsel, thyself first.
Kill not the goose that lays the golden eggs.
Kisses that are easily obtained are easily forgotten.
Kissing goes by favor.
Kissing goes by favour.
Late children are early orphans.
Learning makes people fit company for themselves.
Least said is soonest mended.
Least said, soonest mended.
Lend your money and lose your friend.
Length begets loathing.
Let every man praise the bridge he goes over.
Let him make use of instinct who cannot make use of reason.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
Much ado and little help.
Never fall out with your bread and butter.
Never love with all your heart, it only ends in breaking.
None can guess the jewel by the casket.
None ever took a stone out of the temple but the dust did fly in his eyes.
He declares himself guilty who justifies himself before accusation.
He is lifeless that is faultless.
He opens the door with an ax.
He that buyeth magistracy will seek justice.
He that does amiss may do well.
He that goes barefoot must not plant thorns.
He that seeks trouble always finds it.
He that seeks trouble never misses.
He that serves at the altar ought to live by the altar.
He that shippeth the devil must make the best of him.
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.
He that will take the bird must not scare it.
He that will thrive must first ask his wife.
He that will to Cupar maun to Cupar.
He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin.
He who says what he likes will hear what he does not like.
If thou canst not see the bottom, wade not.
If thou hast not a capon, feed on an onion.
If you swear you will catch no fish.
In a cat's eye, all things belong to cats.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty.
Innocent actions carry their warrant with them.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and to trust nobody.
Do not triumph before the victory.
Do when ye may, or suffer ye the nay, in love 'tis the way.
Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork.
Don't fall before you're pushed.
Elbow grease is the best polish.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
Every bean hath its black.
Every dog has his day.
Every dog is entitled to one bite.
Every path has its puddle.
Everyone must row with the oars he has.
Fame is a magnifying glass.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Far fowls have fair feathers.
Far from court, far from care.
First deserve, and then desire.
First impressions are the most lasting.
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
Gray hairs are death's blossoms.
Have you any Spanish? (Meaning, Have you got any money?)
A half-truth is a whole lie.
Among those who stand, do not sit; among those who sit, do not stand. Among those who laugh, do not weep; among those who weep, do not laugh.
Anyone who teases you loves you.
Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house.
Be sure to send a lazy man for the angel of death.
Be the day weary or be the day long, at last it ringeth to evensong.
Do not ask questions of fairy tales.
Do not make yourself so big, you are not so small.
Do not meet troubles half-way.
Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out.
Don't live in a town where there are no doctors.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile.
Don't pick a wasp out of a cream-jug.
God could not be everywhere and therefore he made mothers.
God gives burdens also shoulders.
He who puts up with insult invites injury.
If God lived on earth, people would break his windows.
If the rich could hire someone else to die for them, the poor would make a wonderful living.
If you can't go over, you must go under.
In a restaurant choose a table near a waiter.
Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family.
Make sure to be in with your equals if you're going to fall out with your superiors.
Never trust people who tell you all their troubles but keep from you all their joys.
Never trust the man who tells you all his troubles but keeps from you all his joys.
Prepare your proof before you argue.
Pride is the mask of one's own faults.
Pride joined with many virtues chokes them all.
Pride that dined with vanity supped with poverty.
"Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall"--but don't rush to pick his up, either.
The innkeeper loves a drunkard, but not for a son-in-law.
The only truly dead are those who have been forgotten.
What you don't see with your eyes, don't invent with your mouth.
What you give for the cause of charity in health is gold; what you give in sickness is silver; what you give after death is lead.
When two divorced people marry, four people get into bed.
When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage.
With money in your pocket you are wise, you are handsome, and you sing well too.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
Your friend has a friend; don't tell him.
We're fools whether we dance or not, so we might as well dance.
We've arrived, and to prove it we're here.
When the time comes, even a rat becomes a tiger.
When you're thirsty it's too late to think about digging a well.
When your companions get drunk and fight, Take up your hat, and wish them good night.
While we consider when to begin, it becomes too late.
Wisdom and virtue are like the two wheels of a cart.
The mouth is the door of evil.
The nail that sticks its head up is the one that gets hit.
The nail that sticks out is hammered down.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down.
The pebble in the brook secretly thinks itself a precious stone.
The reverse side also has a reverse side.
The smaller the margin, the greater the turnover.
The smallest good deed is better than the grandest good intention.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
The tongue is more to be feared than the sword.
Tigers die and leave their skins; people die and leave their names.
Time spent laughing is time spent with the gods.
To wait for luck is the same as waiting for death.
Transactions in Hell also depend upon money.
Unless you enter the tiger's den you cannot take the cubs.
Virtue is not knowing but doing.
Vision with action is a daydream; action without vision is a nightmare.
Vision without action is a daydream. Action with without vision is a nightmare.
Walls have ears, bottles have mouths.
Walls have ears, paper sliding doors have eyes.
We are no more than candles burning in the wind.
We learn little from victory, much from defeat.
Laughter cannot bring back what anger has driven away.
Laughter is the hiccup of a fool.
Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands.
Life's not all beer and skittles.
Luck is like having a rice dumpling fly into your mouth.
Money grows on the tree of persistence.
My skirt with tears is always wet: I have forgotten to forget.
My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
Never rely on the glory of the morning or the smiles of your mother-in-law.
Never trust the advice of a man in difficulty.
One dog yelping at nothing will set ten thousand straining at their collars.
One kind word can warm three winter months.
One kindness is the price of another.
One who smiles rather than rages is always the stronger.
One written word is worth a thousand pieces of gold.
Only lawyers and painters can turn white to black.
Silent worms dig holes in the walls.
Sleeping people can't fall down.
The absent get further off every day.
The crow that mimics a cormorant is drowned.
The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
The go-between wears out a thousand sandals.
The inarticulate speak longest.
Deceiving a deceiver is no knavery.
Don't stay long when the husband is not at home.
Even a sheet of paper has two sides.
Even a thief takes ten years to learn his trade.
Fall seven times, stand up eight.
Fast Ripe, Fast Rotten.
First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man.
First things first.
Forgiving the unrepentant is like drawing pictures on water.
Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand.
Had the pheasant not screamed, it wouldn't have been shot.
If a man be great, even his dog will wear a proud look.
If a man deceive me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
If man has no tea in him, he is incapable of understanding truth and beauty.
If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master.
If my shirt knew my design, I'd burn it.
If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are.
If one man praises you, a thousand will repeat the praise.
If the father is a frog, the son will be a frog.
If you believe everything you read, better not read.
If you understand everything, you must be misinformed.
If you want a thing done well, do it yourself.
It is a beggar's pride that he is not a thief.
It is a blessing in disguise.
Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass.
If youth but knew, and age were able, Then poverty would be a fable. 
If youth knew what age would crave, It would both get and save.
Two's company, three's a crowd.
Variety is the spice of life.
We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct.
What a story these old walls could tell.
When pleasure interferes with business, give up business.
Always drink upstream from the herd.
Don't squat with your spurs on.
If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging.
If you get to thinking you're a person of some influence, try ordering somebody else's dog around.
It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
Never ask a barber if you need a haircut.
Timing has a lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance.
A good neighbour is better than a brother far off.
A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair.
A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.
A goose drinks as much as a gander.
A greedy mill grinds all kinds of corn.
A green Christmas makes a fat churchyard.
A green Yule makes a fat churchyard.
A gross belly does not produce a refined mind.
A hard bit does not make the better horse.
A head is not to be cut off because it is scabby.
A headless army fights badly.
A headstrong man and a fool may wear the same cap.
A hearth of your own is worth gold.
A hundred waggonsful of sorrow will not pay a handful of debt.
A hungry dog and a thirsty horse take no heed of blows.
A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning.
A large fire often comes from a small spark.
A lass that has many wooers often fares the worst.
A lazy boy and a warm bed are difficult to part.
A lean calf forgets to skip.
A little dog, a cow without horns, and a short man, are generally proud.
A little stone may upset a large cart.
A lord without land, is like a cask without wine.
A man cannot carry all his kin on his back.
A man conducts himself abroad as he has been taught at home.
A beautiful thing is never perfect.
A man's ruin lies in his tongue.
Be patient with a bad neighbor: he may move or face misfortune.
Because we focused on the snake, we missed the scorpion.
Bed is the poor man's opera.
False ambition serves the neck.
If there were no fault, there would be no pardon.
Learn politeness from the impolite.
Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk.
Malice drinketh its own poison.
Pride and dignity would belong to women if only men would leave them alone.
Pride feels no pain.
Pride goes before a fall.
Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
Put a rope around your neck and many will be happy to drag you along.
Put a stout heart to a steep hill.
Put a stout heart to a stey brae.
Put by for a rainy day.
Run as hard as a wild beast if you will, but you won't get any reward greater than that destined for you.
The barking of a dog does not disturb the man on a camel.
The tyrant is only the slave turned inside out.
When the angels present themselves, the devils abscond.
A person who misses a chance and the monkey who misses its branch can't be saved.
He who searches for pearls should not sleep.
Life is like this: sometimes sun, sometimes rain.
The poor lack much, but the greedy more.
When one shuts one eye, one does not hear everything.
By labour fire is got out of a stone.
By slow degrees the bird builds his nest.
By the living we bury the dead.
Caress your dog, and he'll spoil your clothes.
Caution is the parent of delicate beer-glasses.
Cent-wisdom and dollar-folly.
Coffee has two virtues, it is wet and warm.
Cold broth hot again, that loved I never; Old love renew'd again, that loved I ever.
Counsel is as welcome to him as a shoulder of mutton to a sick horse.
Counsel is irksome when the matter is past remedy.
Coupled sheep drown one another.
Cover up the pot, there's an eel in it.
Covetousness is never satisfied till its mouth is filled with earth.
Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up.
Darkness and night are mothers of thought.
"A door is what a dog is perpetually on the wrong side of."
"All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others.
"A 'geek' by definition is someone who eats live animals....I've never eaten live animals.
"Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get used to the idea.
"Man [has] always assumed that he was more intelligent than dolphins because he had achieved so much-the wheel, New York, wars and so on-while all the dolphins had ever done was muck about in the water having a good time. But conversely, the dolphins had always believed that they were far more intelligent than man-for precisely the same reason."	 
"I believe that our Heavenly Father invented man because he was disappointed in the monkey."	
"I have from an early age abjured the use of meat, and the time will come when men will look upon the murder of animals as they now look upon the murder of men."	
"Nobody has ever before asked the nuclear family to live all by itself in a box the way we do. With no relatives, no support, we've put it in an impossible situation."	
"No government can love a child, and no policy can substitute for a family's care."
"I wanted to do something nice so I bought my mother-in-law a chair. Now they won't let me plug it in."	
"A very quiet and tasteful way to be famous is to have a famous relation. Then you can not only be nothing, you can do nothing, too."	
"If you cannot get rid of the family skeleton. You may as well make it dance."
"Men are what their mothers made them."	
"The family you come from isn't as important as the family you're going to have."	
"When I was a boy of 14, my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. But when I got to be 21, I was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years."	
"The one thing I want to leave my children is an honorable name."	
"Parents are not interested in justice, they're interested in peace and quiet."	
"If the new American father feels bewildered and even defeated, let him take comfort from the fact that whatever he does in any fathering situation has a fifty percent chance of being right."
"Fatherhood is pretending the present you love most is soap on-a-rope."
There never was a looking-glass that told a woman she was ugly.
There's neither rhyme nor reason.
There's no guarding against the privy thief.
There's no need to grease the fat pig's rump.
There's no showing the wolf to a bad dog.
There's not enough if there's not too much.
There's nothing like being bespattered for making a man defy the gutter.
There's nothing like having the key of the fields.
There's virtue in a man's face (i.e., presence carries weight).
"They say" is a fool.
They will be hushed by a good deed who laugh at a wise speech.
Think much, say little, write less.
Though the fool waits, the day does not.
Thrift is better than an annuity.
Thrive by honesty or remain poor.
To a bold man fortune holds out her hand.